# azure-database-migration943

The beginning of this project consists in seting up the correct work enviroment. So, after setting up this repo, the first stage is creating a Production Enviroment: 
- The first step is to create a virtual machine on Azure, and making sure the image of the VM is set up to allow the RDP protocol. In this way we'll be able to connect to the VM by using Windows Remote Desktop.
- Afterthat we have to make sure that SQL Server and SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS) are installed on the VM, and if not we can istall them by using the Microsoft Download Center.
- Now we can download (the dowload was given) and restore the AdventureWorks database on SSMS, and in this way, we'll finally replicate an authentic production database scenario.

Now we have all the basics to start the Migration Process, and we can begin our work by using Microsoft Azure and creating an Azure SQL Database within an Azure SQL Server. This Server should have SQL login as authentication method, and all the appropriate firewall rules (making sure to include one with the IP address of your virtual machine).
-Then we can move on by using Azure Data Studio, which is an application that can be easily downloaded on our VM. Here we can connect to both our servers: the first is our local containing the AdventureWorks Database, and the second one is the Azure SQL Server we have created on Azure. Something to make sure is that the local server should have windows authentication and the server on Azure SQL authentication under 'authentication methods'.
-Now we can download the Azure Data Studio extention's SQL Schema compare and using it to duplicate all the schemas and tables from the AdventureWorks Database to the Azure SQL Database (we are not coping data but just the setting of the database). If, after a final check, all the schemas are now on the Azure Database, we can move on. (A way to check this is by simply go on the related server on Azure Data Studio, and, under the Azure SQL Database, under Tables, we should find all the tables).
-Then, we can proceed with the migration of the data. So we start by downloading the Azure SQL Migration extention and, by following the wizard procedure we should be able to transferr all the data to our Azure SQL Database. Within this process we will create an Azure Migration Service on Microsoft Azure and we should be able to use it to connect to the cloud. Furthermore, a suggestion to avoid any errors could be making sure to use all the correct passwords and authentication methods.
- The Migration procedure should be finished and succeded, but we should not forget to check and validate that all the data as been transferred correctly. On easy way to do so is by go on the Azure Database on Azure Data Studio and on every table do right click and then 'Select Top 1000'.
